NOTE: This is an incomplete list!

0-INSTALL	Documentation on installation.
0-README	General documentation.
svgalib.lsm	LSM entry for svgalib.
Makefile.cfg	Configuration for everything. Be sure to issue a 'make clean'
		if you change any non installation configuration in there.

doc/		In general, docs on anything.
doc/man?/	Manual pages on everything. See:
doc/0-README	on how to make nice printouts of this manpages and how to
		access the man pages without installing svgalib.

src/
    vga.h	Headerfile for library
    vga.c	Main module
    vgaclear.c  Routines to clear the screen.
    vgadraw.c	Routines drawing scanlines.
    vgaline.c	Routines drawing lines.
    vgamodesel.c Routines to select video modes.
    vgapal.c	Routines to deal with the color palette.
    vgapix.c	Routines drawing pixels.
    vgadrv.c	Standard VGA driver (also used by other drivers).
    cirrus.c	Cirrus GD542x driver.
    et4000.c	Tseng ET4000 driver.
    tvga8900.c	Trident 8900/9000 driver.
    oak.c	Oak 037/067/077 driver.
    mach32.c	ATI Mach32 driver.
    s3.c	S3 driver (non-functional).
    libvga.h	Definitions shared between modules.
    driver.h	Definitions used by chipset drivers.

src/keyboard/	Driver for raw keyboard mode.

src/mouse/	Driver for the mouse.

utils/
    restorefont.c Program to save and restore (corrupted) VGA textmode font.
    convfont.c	Program to convert VGA fonts.
    runx	Shell script to start XFree86 with font saving/restoration.
    font8	Sample 8-line VGA font.
    font14	Sample 14-line VGA font.
    font16	Sample 16-line VGA font.
    restoretextmode.c Program to save and restore VGA textmode registers.
    savetextmode Script to save textmode registers and font.
    textmode	Script to restore textmode registers and font.
    restorepalette.c Program to set the VGA textmode palette to the default.
    setmclk.c	Program to tweak memory clock of Cirrus 542x cards.
    dumpreg.c	A program to dump VGA registers.

support/
    vga.c	DOS program to dump VGA registers

gl/
    def.h	Sources of vgagl library
    driver.c	Primitives
    driver.h
    grlib.c	Main module
    inlstring.h
    line.c
    palette.c
    scale.c
    text.c
    vgagl.h	Headerfile of vgagl library

demos/
    vgatest.c	Mode test program
    fun.c	Demo program with moving pixels
    testgl.c	Test program
    speedtest.c	Tests framebuffer video speed
    mousetest.c	Program to test the mouse interface
    spin.c	Program to test the 6-dimensional mouse interface
    spintables.h Precalculated trig functions for spin
    scrolldemo.c VGA scrolling demo (Mode X etc.)
    testlinear.c Test linear addressing (Cirrus, Mach32).
    3d		Binary of 3d demo. It was made by Harm Haanemayer. I don't
		have the source I can't maintain it. If it works -> enjoy, if
		not: *shrug*
    testaccel.c	Test 8bit dac (some Mach32) and all blitfunctions (in most rez)

threedkit/	Some nifty 3D demos (plus source) by Paul Sheer.

mach32/
    mach32info.c reads out Mach32 state and EEPROM, calcs clocks.
    mach32.std-modes standard ATI videotimings in config file format.
